how data is stored in PostgresSQL:
each database has a directory in the data directory, and each table has a file in the database directory.
each table has a file in the database directory called heap file.
heap file divided into pages or blocks, each page has a fixed size of 8KB.
each page has a header and a body, the header contains metadata about the page, and the body contains the actual data.
the body is divided into tuples, each tuple represents a row in the table.
the data is stored in the disc in a binary format.

After the data is stored in the disc, the data is loaded into the memory when the query is executed.
When we query the data, we can use indexes to speed up the query.
But how does the index work?
Let's imagine we have this table:
name        age
----------------
john        20
alice       25
bob         30
carol       35
david       40

and the data stored in the disc in this format:

Block 0:
    john 20
    alice 25
Block 1:
    bob 30
    carol 35

Block 2:
    david 40

and we run this query:
    select * from users where name = 'bob';

i need to scan all the blocks to find the row that has the name 'bob'

Now I know that 'bob' is in block 1, at index 0, I want some way to find the row faster.
The solution is to use an index.

after using an index on the name, it takes the name and map the data like this:
john -> block 0, index 0
alice -> block 0, index 1
bob -> block 1, index 0
carol -> block 1, index 1
david -> block 2, index 0

Then sort the data based on the name, and store the data in a binary tree.
So after storing the data it looks like this:
alice -> block 0, index 1
bob -> block 1, index 0
carol -> block 1, index 1
david -> block 2, index 0
john -> block 0, index 0
when we run the query, it goes to the binary tree and finds the row faster.


indexes types:
1. b-tree:
    use a balanced tree to store the data.
    very efficient for equality and range queries like (=, <, >, BETWEEN).
    efficient for sorting and ordering.
    usually used with where clause.

2. hash:
    used to transform a value into a hash key.
    very efficient for equality queries like (=).
    not efficient for range queries.
    usually used with where clause.
    very efficient for searching for a unique value and primary keys.

3. GIN (Generalized Inverted Index):
    used for indexing composite values like JSON.
    fast for searching for a value in a composite value like JSON or array.


4. GiST (Generalized Search Tree):
    used for indexing geometric data types and range types.
    perfect for range queries and geospatial data, and searching for a value in a range.

5. SP-GiST (Space-Partitioned Generalized Search Tree):
    used for indexing space-partitioned data.
    splendid for indexing multidimensional data.
    efficient for querying prefix and suffix of a string and pattern matching.


6. BRIN (Block Range Indexes):
    used for indexing large tables.
    very efficient for large tables.
    used with time-series data and log data.
    divide the table into blocks and store the minimum and maximum value of each block.
